#Chef infrastructure automation

##Introduction

This document is being presented as part of a study poject. Our team is researching infrasructure automation with the goal of comparing the most popular options (at this time). I will be studying Chef. Our goal is to produce easy setup guides for a number of example configuraions and to present our findings to our classmates at the end of the project. I have no prior familiarity with chef although I did check that it should work with Xubuntu which is my Linux distro of choice. I also installed it from the repo to have a quick look but deided to remove it to proceed with a guide provided by chef.

##Starting with Chef

Chef.io has a number of links to guides and instructions. I have no previous knowledge of chef so i'll be looking at the provided guides as part of this project. I started folowing the guide starting from [https://learn.chef.io/modules/getting-started-with-chef-lcr#/] I proceed to the recommended basics course "Infrasructure automation". Since I'm using Xubuntu i chose Ubuntu from the oferred options for OS and I wanted to use my ow n computer for initial testing. The guide seems comprehensive but right away it sems to me that some unneeded instructions are provided since i already chose a set of options why are these being provided if the instructions are not tailored to the choices? The instructions are provided very clearly separated between terminal comands and other advice copypasting from the website also seems to work without problems. Having now installed the basics required to use chef i was a bit surprised thet the guide now seemed to suggest that i was done and should remove my progress so far the learning module semed a bit on the short side for simply instaling the basics and not even using them. Proceeding to the next module i copied their helloworld but chose to use a different directory because i want ot push the results out with and established git-repo. Despite this the tutorial worked as expected. Iwas very plesantly susrprised to see that deletion of files was present in the tutorial my understanding has been that rollback functionality is not a strenght of CCM systems and Chef seems to include deletion at the least. Thse second resource was uch more interesting with some basic commands and a hello world. Seems that the modules try to be bite sized for convinience. The third module installs an apache2 webserver which seems to me to be a good starting point for learning a CCM although 'helloworld' is customary. The modules completes with a taste of a cookbook a organizational unit in chef. The second module of chef learning requires a separate instances for a serer a workstation and node i decided to set this up using vagrant. 
  
